# Challenging Common Assumptions in the Unsupervised Learning of Disentangled Representations
Authors: Francesco Locatello, Stefan Bauer, Mario Lucic, Gunnar Raetsch, Sylvain Gelly, Bernhard Schölkopf, Olivier Bachem
Venue: Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR 97:4114-4124, 2019.

## Comments

## Summary
The author theoretically prove that the unsupervised learning of disentangled representations is fundamentally **impossible** without inductive biases both on the considered learning approaches and the data sets.

The experiments show that
1. No evidence found that the considered models can be used to reliably learn disentangled representations in an unsupervised manner.
2. Good trained models seemingly cannot be identified without access to ground-truth labels even if we are allowed to transfer good hyperparameter values across data sets.
3. For the considered models and data sets, we cannot validate the assumption that disentanglement is **useful** for downstream tasks

The author suggests that disentanglement learning works should be ***explicit*** about the role of inductive biases and (implicit) supervision, investigate concrete benefits of enforcing disentanglement of the learned representations

## Background
There is ***no single formalized notion of disentanglement*** (yet) which is widely accepted, the key intuition is that a disentangled representation should separate the distinct, informative factors of variations in the data.

State-of-the-art approaches for unsupervised disentanglement learning are largely based on Variational Autoencoders (VAEs).

## Problem
Disentangle factors from data using unsupervised learning, when data is generated by explanatory factors (substantially lower dimensional and semantically meaningful latent variable).

## Approach
After observing data $x$, we can construct infinitely many generative models which have the same marginal distribution of $x$. Any one of these models could be the true causal generative model for the data, and the right model cannot be identified given only the distribution of $x$. It is similar to the non-identifiability of non-linear ICA problem.

## Experiment
